Case Study 2
================
Cody Jenson
1/16/2021

# Passions and Interests.

I can see myself going 2 different ways with these questions for study,
I could either study something personally interesting or something
professionally interesting. These might seem rather similar, but it
makes sense to initially organize my thoughts. Personally it could be
fitness, literature, dogs, marriage. Professionally I am interested in
entrepreneurship and analysis that might indicate a good field or
opportunity to start a business. Potentially something in the auto
industry (I have a friend who has talked about trying to start a shop or
used car dealership), video game development, or web design. I would
probably be interested in seeing economic data about those things to
identify opportunities.

# Dogs

I live at an apartment complex that allows dogs, but certain breeds of
dogs are banned, I was told when I inquired about it that it was an
insurance requirement, so I would like to ask a statistically minded
question that might apply to an insurer, such as can I predict either
the frequency/likelihood or severity of bites by a dog’s breed? I am
interested in actuarial work so the statistical evidence that would gear
an insurance policy about this subject is something that would interest
me. To be clear my dog is none of those breeds independently, but I was
curious when I heard about the insurance requirement and whether or not
that was an actuarially sound insurance decision.

My feedback was positive with this question, at first introducing the
topic they thought it didn’t seem academic or statistical enough, but
some suggestions about phrasing it and the focus on the insurance angle
made it seem a little more practical.

Preliminary research included this article:
<https://www.uphelp.org/ultimate-guide-home-insurance-dog-owners> This
summarizes the issue more than anything and discusses both legality and
suggests other ways of handling the issue for insurance companies, at
one point.

In searching for actual statistics I had a hard time, when first
searching online I found articles like this:
<https://www.caninejournal.com/dog-bite-statistics/#>:\~:text=According%20to%20a%20study%20from,out%20of%20every%2073%20people.
Which mostly just gave some general statistics but no data access to
work on the question.

However following a link on a similar site led me to this:
<https://www.iii.org/article/spotlight-on-dog-bite-liability> which
actually has some tables with interesting data, but it still doesn’t
have the raw data I hoped for. I also have a link for a CDC page talking
about it, but no raw data.
<https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm5226a1.htm#>:\~:text=Approximately%20154%2C625%20(42.0%25)%20dog,0.037)%20(Figure%201).

# Fitness

I enjoyed doing sports in high school and have since enjoyed running,
lifting, hiking etc. I like to challenge myself. I know that lots of
statistics have been done relating to fitness, but I would like to stay
fit throughout my life. One key element of continuing, consistent
fitness that works might be to avoid injury. I might ask what common
fitness activities have the highest injury rates between some of those,
maybe running, lifting, swimming, biking, and maybe some martial arts, I
might anticipate that having a higher injury rate though.

I didn’t have a lot of clear feedback from either my friend or wife on
this one, they just thought that it was a good idea and were generally
positive.

Data that I searched for focued a lot of injury rates in competative
sports, either professionally or at a collegiate or high school level.
It was harder to find anything about average adults participating in
these activities. It makes sense that things would be tracked more
clearly there, so I could turn to one of those options for data,
although since it doesn’t really answer my question for me personally, I
might question the relevance of the data.
<https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/7809556/> Here is one of the articles I
found that seemed more applicable, although it focused a lot on military
recruits.

# Auto Industry

Considering my friends thoughts about starting a dealership, I might
look at what states have the highest car sales, or if possible the rates
at which new dealerships enter the market, I could go either way
depending on whether or not I could get useful data for it.

My wife, when asked for feedback, was not helpful, my friend who I was
asking for feedback was actually the one who had shown interest in this
as an entrepreneurial endeavor. He suggested looking by state, and his
plans and knowledge were actually focused around Utah, since his
experience working in car sales in Arizona was that there were a lot of
car auctions in Utah that his dealership would participate in to fill
their inventory.

As far as information, nada.org was the most complete, and they seem to
have good data that is available to buy. There are some summary
statistics that are easily comprable, but nothing allowing me to do my
own in depth analysis. The whole site is dedicated to dealerships so it
makes sense that they would know the kinds of questions business owners
in the industry need answered and gear their information for that.

# Conclusion

Really I would be happy looking at any of these. The dog bites issue
does seem to have less accessible data than the other two though, so
that is most likely to be cut so far.
